Resume Agile Testing

- SDLC merupakan proses yang digunakan untuk merancang, mengembangkan, dan menguji software yang berkualitas tinggi. Tujuan SDLC adalah menyediakan alur terstruktur untuk membantu alurisasi untuk menghasilkan software berkulitas tinggi untuk menyelesaikan perkiraan waktu yang singkat untuk biaya yang lebih rendah namun tetap memenuhi kualitas sesuai pelanggan. SDCL mengurangi kemungkinan adanya pengerjaan ulang atau perbaikan saat software telah jadi. 
- Tahapan SDLC : requirement gathering, design, development (code), testing, deployment, maintenance. Requirement gathering -> gathering business requirement, creating prosess diagrams, performing a detailed analysis. Design -> designing of IT infrastructure, designing of system model. Deplopment -> deplopment of IT infrastructure, development of database and code. Testing -> writing test case, execution of test cases. Deployment -> the system is deployment to a real life environtment where the actual user begins to operate the system. Maintenance -> support the system user, system maintenance, system changes and adjustment. 
- Agile testing manifesto criteria : testing is always behind, automation is even futher behind that, testers can't work until development is done, there is pressure at the end of a sprint, there is blame around bugs. 
- 5 keys testing manifesto : 1. testing is an activity not a phase, 2. prevent bugs rather than finding bugs, 3. don't be checker, be a tester, 4. don't try to break the system, instead help build the best possible system, 5. the whole team is responsible for quality, not just the tester. 
- Testing pyramid : UI -> service -> unit test, UI -> integration -> unit test. 